- If you remember when we discussed SOA,
the BPEL layer allows you to expose various services
over a common BUS.
This BUS brought about significant problems
in managing your code
as it often became bloated with code itself
and that bloat decrease the ability
to manage the infrastructure.
In a microservices architecture,
you often leverage an API proxy
to hide your service implementations
behind a common proxy layer.
But again, this layer can become bloated
if you start transforming your service offerings
based on client needs,
which is a common approach many are tempted to take.
With all of this,
you may ask how you can solve multiple client needs
for underlying services and I'll use this
as a chance to discuss the need for edge services.
There really are two distinct types of edge services
in my view and we will talk about them separately.
The first and most common is the outbound edge service.
These services are used to expose your client-specific needs
to the outside world.
The other edge service,
often called inbound or translation services,
are more important to me
in that they are designed to abstract you
from third party dependencies.
Let's talk about the inbound edge services first.
Think for a moment
about the third party systems you contract with
and imagine how often those contracts change.
I want to talk about a real use case
and that is an email marketing scenario.
Your company most likely leverages a third party send system
to handle outgoing email communications
so you don't thrash your internal email system.
Sometimes these communications are transactional
like an order fulfillment or a status notification,
but sometimes these communications are marketing based.
Either way, you will have some set of content
and you will leverage these systems
to simply handle the SMTP operations.
When you consume these services,
you can either call the APIs directly
or build an edge service that you own
to interact with the third party.
If you build the abstraction layer or edge service,
you control not only the vendor API changes,
but also provide yourself a much easier path
for vendor replacement if the need arises.
And hey, most likely it will.
After all, technology and pricing changes like crazy.
When you build an abstraction layer like this,
you minimize the impact of changes
which is critical to the health of your system as a whole.
Imagine a breaking API change from the vendor.
Now, you can roll that change out in one service
or hundreds of them.
I prefer the single service.
It is true that you have now introduced
one more hop in every call to the remote service,
but you can manage that through asynchronous operations
especially on a service like email sending.
Even if you cannot manage the latency
through asynchronous operations,
the reduction of code changes alone
makes this a benefit.
Now let's talk about the outbound edge service use case.
Not every client that consumes your service
needs the same data payload.
Mobile scenarios tend to thrive on smaller payloads of data,
but you need a place to manage this.
You could manage it in your proxy layer
or through an API gateway,
but I hope you understand how bad this can be.
If, however, you manage your own edge services
specific for clients and simply proxy them,
you get several key benefits.
The first is that you are managing
the transformations in code
similar to all the other code in your system.
This immediately makes managing this code much easier.
You also gain another key benefit.
Think back a few videos ago
when I talked about how critical it was
to make your API changes passive or to leverage versioning.
This is even more critical for your clients
especially those that you cannot immediately update
like mobile and desktop clients.
By building out edge services,
you can continue to provide them a consistent interface
even if the underlying services change.
Designing your services so they are isolated from changes
cannot be underestimated.
Spend a little extra effort
when designing and coding for these use cases
and you will reap the rewards downstream.